W-12183598-shared-responsibilities-kt (#2183)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: connectors-home/modules/ROOT/pages/introduction/connectors-shared-responsibilities.adoc

= Anypoint Connectors Shared Responsibilities

The successful operation of Anypoint Connectors is a shared responsibility between MuleSoft and the customer. It is critical to understand which areas customers are responsible for and which areas MuleSoft is responsible for.

== Anypoint Connectors Categories

Anypoint Connectors fall into these categories:

* Connectors that enable the use of cross-platform protocols or open APIs. 
+
For example, Database Connector, which is based on Oracle’s JDBC protocol.

* Connectors or modules that enable connectivity to MuleSoft or Salesforce applications. 
+
For example, Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector and Anypoint MQ Connector.

* Connectors that enable connectivity to third-party or partner APIs. 
+
For example, Azure Key Vault Connector and Stripe Connector.

> * Connectors developed by MuleSoft’s partners and subsequently reviewed and certified by MuleSoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Connectors developed by MuleSoft’s partners and subsequently reviewed and certified by MuleSoft. These connectors are labeled `MuleSoft` Partner in Anypoint Exchange.
```

+

> For example ESRI Connector (in Anypoint Exchange identify them as MuleSoft Partner).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, ESRI Connector.
```

> * Connectors developed by MuleSoft developer community and subsequently reviewed and certified by MuleSoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Connectors developed by MuleSoft developer community and subsequently reviewed and certified by MuleSoft. These connectors are labeled `Open-Source Community` in Anypoint Exchange.
```

+

> For example, Slack Connector - Mule 3 (in Anypoint Exchange identify them as Open-Source Community).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Slack Connector - Mule 3.
```

= Anypoint Connectors Shared Responsibilities

The successful operation of Anypoint Connectors is a shared responsibility between MuleSoft and the customer. It is critical to understand which areas customers are responsible for and which areas MuleSoft is responsible for.

== Anypoint Connectors Categories

Anypoint Connectors fall into these categories:

* Connectors that enable the use of cross-platform protocols or open APIs. +

> For example, Database Connector, which is based on Oracle’s JDBC protocol.

Reviewer: I would leave a blank line between the two sentences in the bullet item, here and elsewhere. It makes it easier for folks to skim.

* Connectors or modules that enable connectivity to MuleSoft or Salesforce applications. +
For example, Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector and Anypoint MQ Connector.

* Connectors that enable connectivity to third-party or partner APIs. +
For example, Azure Key Vault Connector and Stripe Connector.

* MuleSoft Certified Connectors +

> These are developed by MuleSoft’s partners and subsequently reviewed and certified by MuleSoft, for example ESRI Connector (in Anypoint Exchange identify them as MuleSoft Partner).

Reviewer: Suggestion: To make this a bit more parallel to the other bullets:

Connectors developed by MuleSoft’s partners and subsequently reviewed and certified by MuleSoft. 
+
For example, ESRI Connector.

Reviewer: I am not sure what you mean by "(in Anypoint Exchange identify them as MuleSoft Partner)." Do you mean that these are identified as MuleSoft Partner in Exchange?

* Community Connectors +

> These are developed by the developer community and subsequently reviewed and certified by MuleSoft, for example, Slack Connector - Mule 3 (in Anypoint Exchange identify them as Open-Source Community).

Reviewer: Use the same formatting as above. I also have the same question about what "(in Anypoint Exchange identify them as Open-Source Community)" means.

== Third-party Providers and Partners

Additionally, there are third-party providers and partners:

* Third-party providers +

> These entities, which are external to the MuleSoft organization, provide and develop libraries or drivers that you add and configure for the operation of the connector under certain circumstances. MuleSoft does not include these libraries or drivers in the connector source code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These entities, which are external to the MuleSoft organization, provide and develop libraries or drivers that you add and configure for the operation of the connector under certain circumstances. MuleSoft does not include these libraries and drivers in the connector source code. 
```

+

> For example, Database Connector connects through a common protocol (JDBC) with a database. There are several drivers that offer a JDBC interface, which is a communication channel between the connector and the database. You select which JDBC driver you add and configure to connect to a specific vendor’s database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, some connectors ( such as Database Connector) use a common protocol, JDBC, for connecting to a database. There are several vendor-provided JDBC drivers. You can select which JDBC driver to use for connecting to a specific vendor’s database.
```

Reviewer: I tried to tighten the text above by removing "which is a communication channel between the connector and the database," since it isn't necessary to say that if you reword the first sentence. I am not sure I got the wording right in terms of accuracy.

+

* Partners +

> MuleSoft partners develop MuleSoft Certified Connectors. They assist with partner systems, domain, technology and the connector configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft partners develop MuleSoft Certified Connectors. They assist with partner systems, domain, technology, and connector configuration.
```

Reviewer: assist with partner systems, domain, ...

What does it mean to assist with a domain? Can we remove this?

== Shared Responsibilities

> The following table contains the Anypoint Connectors shared responsibilities within customers, third-party providers, partners and MuleSoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table describes the responsibilities that customers, third-party providers, partners, and MuleSoft share for Anypoint Connectors.
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]

> |===

Reviewer: I think you should have the cell text at the top of the column instead of in the center. It looks funny in the preview.

| Type of Connector | MuleSoft Responsibilities | Customer Responsibilities | Third-party Responsibilities | Partner Responsibilities

> |Connectors for cross-platform protocol or open APIs for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Connectors for cross-platform protocols or open APIs. For example:
```

> Database Connector, JMS Connector, SFTP Connector, X12 Connector, EDIFACT Connector, and TRADACOMS EDI Connector | Support for the connector source code, its packaged libraries, and the functionalities the connector provides. +

Reviewer: Can you either shorten the list or of connectors or make it a bullet list?

> MuleSoft incorporates specific industry-standard message specifications into these connectors, though MuleSoft is not responsible for the partner system or domain technology configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft incorporates specific industry-standard message specifications into these connectors, but it is not responsible for the partner system or domain technology configuration.
```

> a| * Ensure that the connector and Mule runtime engine (Mule) versions are updated with the latest version released by MuleSoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| * Ensure that the connector and the Mule runtime engine (Mule) versions are updated with the latest version released by MuleSoft.
```

* Grant roles and permissions for access to resources.

> * Check shared libraries, plugin dependencies, configuration files, templates, scripts, proxies, and network configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check the shared libraries, plugin dependencies, configuration files, templates, scripts, proxies, and network configuration.
```

> * Check third-party driver limitations, load balancing, parallel processing, and authentication protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check the third-party driver limitations, load balancing, parallel processing, and authentication protocols.
```

> * Check performance issues in destination servers and partner applications.| |Assist with partner system or domain and technology, for example Database and JMS Broker administration.

Reviewer: Same comment before regarding "domain."  Maybe say "domain configuration" instead?

Database > database
JMS Broker > JMS broker

> | Connectors and modules for MuleSoft or Salesforce applications, for example: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connectors and modules for MuleSoft or Salesforce applications. For example: +
```

>  Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector, and Anypoint MQ Connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector and Anypoint MQ Connector
```

| Support for the connector source code and the functionalities the connector provides.

>  a| * Ensure that the connector versions and Mule runtime engine (Mule) versions are updated up to date with the latest version released by MuleSoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 a| * Ensure that the connector versions and Mule runtime engine (Mule) versions are up to date with the latest version released by MuleSoft.
```

* Grant roles and permissions for access to resources.

> * Check shared libraries, plugin dependencies, configuration files, templates, scripts, proxies, and network configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check the shared libraries, plugin dependencies, configuration files, templates, scripts, proxies, and network configuration.
```

* Check third-party driver limitations, load balancing, parallel processing, and authentication protocols.
* Check performance issues in destination servers and partner applications.
 | |

> | Connectors for third-party or partner APIs, for example: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connectors for third-party or partner APIs. For example: +
```

Stripe Connector and Azure Key Vault Connector

> | Support for the connector source code and its packaged libraries and the functionalities the connector provides. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Support for the connector source code, connector packaged libraries, and the functionalities the connector provides. +
```

MuleSoft  is not responsible for specific third-party SDK libraries.  

> MuleSoft uses APIs provided by the partner, though MuleSoft is not responsible for these third-party provider configurations and does not provide assistance with issues related to these drivers or APIs that the connector uses behind the scenes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft uses APIs provided by the partner, but it is not responsible for these third-party provider configurations and does not provide assistance with issues related to the drivers or APIs that the connector uses in the background.
```

> For underlying third-party configuration or issues, the customer must contact the third-party provider directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{sp}+
{sp}+
For underlying third-party configuration or issues, contact the third-party provider directly.
```

> a| * Ensure that the connector versions and Mule runtime engine (Mule) versions are updated up to date with the latest version released by MuleSoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| * Ensure that the connector version and Mule version are up to date with the latest version released by MuleSoft.
```

> * Implement the driver of your choice to use and configure third-party SDK libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select the driver to use for configuring third-party SDK libraries.
```

Reviewer: I am not sure Select is what you want to say. If implement is the right word, keep it, but is it common to say that you implement a driver?

> * Review third-party API specification documentation for configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Review third-party API specification documentation for configuration information.
```

* Grant roles and permissions for access to resources.

> * Check shared libraries, plugin dependencies, configuration files, templates, scripts, proxies, and network configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check the shared libraries, plugin dependencies, configuration files, templates, scripts, proxies, and network configuration.
```

> * Check third-party driver limitations, load balancing, parallel processing, and authentication protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check the third-party driver limitations, load balancing, parallel processing, and authentication protocols.
```

> * Check performance issues in destination servers and partner applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check the performance issues in destination servers and partner applications.
```

>  a| * Provide security updates and amendments to the underlying endpoints. +

Reviewer: What kind of "amendments" are you talking about here?  Maybe we can clarify.

"amendments" is not the right word > apply changes (or apply modifications)

> * Assist with third-party APIs, drivers and SDK libraries configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Assist with using third-party APIs, using drivers, and configuring SDK libraries.
```

  |

> | MuleSoft Certified Connectors| MuleSoft supports initial calls and isolates the issue for resolution. MuleSoft disclaims any additional support obligation for MuleSoft Certified Connectors. For support of MuleSoft Certified Connectors, contact the MuleSoft partner that created the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| MuleSoft Certified Connectors| MuleSoft supports initial calls and isolates issues for resolution. MuleSoft disclaims any additional support obligation for MuleSoft Certified Connectors. For MuleSoft Certified Connectors support, contact the MuleSoft partner that created the connector.
```

 | For support, contact the MuleSoft partner that created the connector. |  | Provide assistance with the partner connector configuration or issue.

> | Community Connectors| Support with troubleshooting the connector to ensure that all licensed components of the platform are working as designed. If the Community Connector is the source of the issue and assistance is required to modify or alter the connector, you can engage with MuleSoft Professional Services or an accredited MuleSoft Partner by contacting their MuleSoft Account Manager. | For initial support contact MuleSoft Customer Support. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Community Connectors| Support with troubleshooting the connector to ensure that all licensed components of the platform are working as designed. If the Community Connector is the source of the issue and assistance is required to modify or alter the connector, you can engage with MuleSoft Professional Services or an accredited MuleSoft Partner by contacting their MuleSoft Account Manager. | For initial support, contact MuleSoft Customer Support. |  |
```

> | Community Connectors| Support with troubleshooting the connector to ensure that all licensed components of the platform are working as designed. If the Community Connector is the source of the issue and assistance is required to modify or alter the connector, you can engage with MuleSoft Professional Services or an accredited MuleSoft Partner by contacting their MuleSoft Account Manager. | For initial support contact MuleSoft Customer Support. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Community Connectors| Support for troubleshooting the connector to ensure that all licensed components of the platform are working as designed. 
{sp}+
{sp}+
If the Community Connector is the source of the issue and assistance is required to modify or alter the connector, you can engage with MuleSoft Professional Services or an accredited MuleSoft Partner by contacting the MuleSoft Account Manager. | For initial support contact MuleSoft Customer Support. |  |
```

> | Community Connectors| Support with troubleshooting the connector to ensure that all licensed components of the platform are working as designed. If the Community Connector is the source of the issue and assistance is required to modify or alter the connector, you can engage with MuleSoft Professional Services or an accredited MuleSoft Partner by contacting their MuleSoft Account Manager. | For initial support contact MuleSoft Customer Support. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Community Connectors| Support for troubleshooting the connector to ensure that all licensed components of the platform are working as designed. If the Community Connector is the source of the issue and assistance is required to modify or alter the connector, you can engage with MuleSoft Professional Services or an accredited MuleSoft Partner by contacting the partner's MuleSoft Account Manager. | For initial support, contact MuleSoft Customer Support. |  |
```
